## 01-20-2023
---
#### Status: #To-Do
---
### Tasks:
---
- [x] Solve daily [WORDLE](https://www.nytimes.com/games/wordle/index.html).
- [x] Exercise:
	- [x] 20 Push Ups.
	- [x] 20 Squats.
	- [x] Run/Walk 1 Mile.
- [x] Practice Japanese on [Duolingo](https://www.duolingo.com/learn).
- [x] Practice [typing](https://10fastfingers.com/typing-test/english).
- [x] (PLACEHOLDER TEXT).
- [ ] Mark **01-20-2023 Daily Note** as completed and move note to **0 - Inbox/January**.
### Ideas:
---
- (PLACEHOLDER TEXT).
### Notes:
---
###### Theory of Computer Science:
- [[01-18-2023#Theory of Computer Science:|Previous Lecture]]
- Nomenclature needs to be precise or else talking about mathematics and computer science is made difficult due to inherent ambiguity in natural language.
- Main areas:
	- Automata: Finite state machines, formal languages, and regular expressions. These are mathematical models for computing.
	- Computability: can everything be computed (this is a yes or no question, Decidability Problem)
	- Complexity: Grouping problems by "hard" they are to compute.
- Formal Language:
	- Only accepts string of characters as input.
- Automation: a machine that preforms a function given a set of instructions.
	- Finite number of states by definition.
	- all transitions are from one valid state to another.
	- Finally, it must be useful (solve an actual problem.)
- Formal math:
	- Finite automation $M$:
		- 5 tuple: ($Q$, $\Sigma$, $\delta$, $q_0$, $F$)
			- $Q$ is a finite set of states.
			- $\Sigma$ is a finite set of symbols called the alphabet (these are the instructions that comprise the language.)
				- Howser prefers that we use angle brackets to encapsulate symbols that are longer than one character.
			- $\delta$ is the transition function such that $Q\times\Sigma\rightarrow Q$ (the Cartesian cross product of the two sets defined such that the product is in $Q$.) $\delta$ is typically represented as a transition table.
			- $q_0$ is the initial state of the machine such that $q_0\in Q$.
			- $F$ is the set of accept states or final states such that $F\subseteq Q$.
		- A string comprised of symbols from $\Sigma$ that results in a state found in $F$, then $M$ is said to accept the string as part of the language $A$ such that $L(M)=A$