## 01-25-2023
---
#### Status: #To-Do
---
### Tasks:
---
- [ ] Solve daily [WORDLE](https://www.nytimes.com/games/wordle/index.html).
- [ ] Practice Japanese on [Duolingo](https://www.duolingo.com/learn).
- [ ] Practice [typing](https://10fastfingers.com/typing-test/english).
- [ ] (PLACEHOLDER TEXT).
- [ ] Mark **01-25-2023 Daily Note** as completed and move note to **0 - Inbox/January**.
### Ideas:
---
- (PLACEHOLDER TEXT).
### Notes:
---
###### Theory of Computer Science:
- [[01-23-2023#Theory of Computer Science:|Previous Lecture]]
- Recitation:
	- Methods of Proof:
		- Direct Proof: a methods of proof that utilizes mathematical definitions.
		- Proof by contradiction: Assume that the inverse of the proposition is true, prove it is false thereby proving that the original proposition is true.
		- Proof by Contrapostive: given a proposition of form $P(x) \rightarrow Q(x)$, prove that $\textasciitilde Q(x)\rightarrow \textasciitilde P(x)$
		- Proof by Induction:
			1. Based case: show that proposition is true for $n$, where $n$ is the simplest case or smallest value possible.
			2. Maintenance Step: assume that the proposition is true for $n=k$.
			3. Induction step: show that the statement is true for $k+1$.
	- Sequences and Series:
		- Arithmetic Sequence: all terms share a common difference $d$ such that $a_n=a_1+(n-1)d$.
		- Geometric Sequence: all terms share a common ratio $r$ such that $a_n=ar^{n-1}$.
		- Telescopic Series Sum: $\sum^{n}_{i=1}a_i-a_{i-1}=a_n-a_0$ 
	- Convergence and Divergence:
		- If a series $\lim_{n\rightarrow\infty}S_n=S$ and $S<\infty$ the series converges, otherwise it diverges.
		- Geometric: $S_A=\frac{a_0(1-r^n)}{1-r}$
###### Physics II:
- [[01-23-2023#Physics II:|Previous Lecture]]
	- Electric Diapole: $\vec{p}= q\vec{d}$
		- Two charges of equal magnitude and opposite directions.
	- Torque in a uniform electric field by a diapole: $U=-\vec{p}\cdot\vec{E}$
	- Electric Field Lines:
		- Drawn by connecting the vectors in a field.
		- While information on the magnitude in a given spot is no longer encoded in the lines, instead now denoted by the density of the electric field.
		- Line originate in the positive, terminate in the negative.
		- Lines do not cross (field at the point of intersect would be pointing in two directions simultaneously)
		- Number of lines is proportional to the amount of charge.
	- Electric Flux:
		- $\Phi_E=\int\vec{E}\cdot d\vec{A}$
	- Gauss's Law: $\oint\vec{E}\cdot d\vec{A}=\frac{q_{enclosed}}{\epsilon_0}$
		- Counting field lines going through a closed surface.
		- going out of the surface is positive flux
		- Can be used to solve for $\vec{E}$ in special cases where $\vec{E}\space||\space d\vec{A}$
		- Circular symmetry centered on a point charge:
			- $\vec{E}=\frac{q}{4\pi\epsilon_0r^2}\hat{r}$
			- NOTE: similarity to Coloumb's Law such that $k=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}$