## 02-01-2023
---
#### Status: #To-Do
---
### Tasks:
---
- [x] Solve daily [WORDLE](https://www.nytimes.com/games/wordle/index.html).
- [x] Practice Japanese on [Duolingo](https://www.duolingo.com/learn).
- [x] Practice [typing](https://10fastfingers.com/typing-test/english).
- [ ] Mark **02-01-2023 Daily Note** as completed and move note to **0 - Inbox/February**.
### Ideas:
---
- Attend LEAD session for Algorithms tomorrow in McNutt.
### Notes:
---
###### Physics II:
- [[01-30-2023#Physics II:|Previous Lecture]]
- Mechanical Energy:
	- Kinetic Energy (energy due to motion):
		- Recall $K=\frac{1}{2}mv^2$
	- Potential Energy (energy stored due to a conservative force):
		- Recall that a conservative force is independent of path.
		- Recall $\Delta U=-W=-\int\vec{F}\cdot d\vec{s}$.
		- By integrating Columb's Law we find that $\Delta U=\Delta(k\frac{q_1q_2}{r})$ from which we can surmise that $U=k\frac{q_1q_2}{r_{1\rightarrow2}}$
			- NOTE: Since we dropped the $\Delta$, we are asserting that $U=0$ when $r_{1\rightarrow2}$ is infinite.
		- Recall that the force that causes a given potential energy is given by $F_x=-\frac{\partial U}{\partial x}$
		- It can be said that the potential energy is the energy required to move two charges within proximity of each other. 
		- Potential energy is measured in Joules ($J$).
- NOTE: $2\cdot10^{-15}m$ is a distance called a Fermi.
- Point Charge in an Electric Field:
	- Change in Electric Potential Per charge (voltage) is given by $\Delta V=\frac{\Delta U}{q}=-\int \vec{E}\cdot d\vec{s}$
	- $V=k\frac{q}{r}$
	- An electric field goes from higher potential (positive charge) to lower potential (negative charge). Therefore, an electron moves to the higher potential.
	- To calculate electric potential one needs to specific location.
	- When determining the electric potential on a given charge in a set of charges, one must only consider the contribution from the other charges.
	- Electric potential is measured in Volts ($V=\frac{J}{C}$)
	- A 9-Volt battery refers to the fact that there is a difference in the electric potential between the two terminals of 9 Volts.
	- Electric fields are measured in $\frac{N}{C}$ (force per charge) or $\frac{V}{m}$ (electric potential per distance.) 
	- Electron Volts are a unit of energy such that a proton moving through a potential difference of $1 V$ gains $1eV$ of enegry.
	- $1eV=1.6\cdot10^{-19}J$
###### Theory:
- [[01-27-2023#Theory:|Previous Lecture]]
- Non-deterministic Finite Automatons:
	- There may be two branches that a machine might take when given a certain input. 
	- So long as even one of the many branches reaches a final state, then we consider the string accepted.
	- All deterministic finite automatons are also non-deterministic.
	- $N_1=(Q,\Sigma,\delta,q_0,F)$:
		- $Q$ set of states
		- $\Sigma$ set called the alphabet
		- $\delta:Q\times\Sigma_\varepsilon\rightarrow P(Q)$
			- NOTE: $\Sigma_\varepsilon=\Sigma\cup\varepsilon$ signifies that and alphabet that includes the empty character. 
			- Instead of a single value assigned to each Cartesian pair, there is a set of states, all of which are to be executed.
		- $q_0$ is the initial state.
		- $F\subseteq P(Q)$ is the set of final states.
- Mathematics  Review
	- $P(A)=\{x|x\subset A$ and $x\subseteq A\}$ (this includes the empty set.)
	 - If $|A|=n$ then $|P(A)|=2^n$
		 - NOTE: $|A|$ is the cardinality of A.
	- The elements of a set must be unique, agnostic to the order of these elements.
###### Algorithms Recitation:
- [[01-31-2023#Algorithms:|Previous Lectures]]
- Implementing Insertion Sort on Stacks:
	- Insertion sort is a sorting algorithm that 
	- Temporary Stacks:
		- Uses two stacks: temporary and a sorted stack.
		1. Create temporary stack.
		2. .
		- $O(n^2)$ time complexity
	- Recursion:
		- .
		1. Start with empty stack and push the first element to it.
		2. For every element in the array,
- Big-O Notation:
	- A way to describe the asymptotic upper bound of the run time of an algorithm.
	- $O(n)=\{f(n)|$$\}$
	- Sterling's Apporximation: $\ln(n!)=\ln(\sqrt{2\pi n}(\frac{n}{e})^n)$
Litany: 
1. 