## 02-27-2023
---
#### Status: #To-Do
---
### Tasks:
---
- [ ] Solve daily [WORDLE](https://www.nytimes.com/games/wordle/index.html).
- [ ] Exercise:
	- [ ] 20 Push Ups.
	- [ ] 20 Squats.
	- [ ] Run/Walk 1 Mile.
- [ ] Practice Japanese on [Duolingo](https://www.duolingo.com/learn).
- [ ] Practice [typing](https://10fastfingers.com/typing-test/english).
- [ ] (PLACEHOLDER TEXT).
- [ ] Mark **02-27-2023 Daily Note** as completed and move note to **0 - Inbox/February**.
### Ideas:
---
- (PLACEHOLDER TEXT).
### Notes:
---
###### Theory:
- [[(PLACEHOLDER TEXT)|Previous Lecture]]
- Context Free Grammars
	- Grammars, given the language, .
	- Examples of C.F.G.:
		- Natural Languages:
			- Nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs.
			- Rules to construct a phrase.
		- Programming Languages:
			- Keywords, Variables, Operators
			- Rigid syntax to build correct statements
	- A context free grammar is composed of rules known as **Productions**, which is a substitution. Below is $G_1$:
		- $A\rightarrow 0A1$
		- $A\rightarrow B$
		- $B\rightarrow \#$
		- Here $A$ is referred to as a **variable**. In particular, it us a start variable.
		- Anything on the right hand side that is not a variable is not a symbol in the language, but rather a **terminal** (as they cannot be substituted for anything else.)
	- Given two Productions in a Grammar begin with the same variable, then their substitutions can be combined using the or operator: 
		- $A\rightarrow 0A1|B$
	- In order to generate a string in the language, we start with our start variable and preform substitutions until we are left with nothing but terminals.
	- The steps/substitutions preformed to create a given string are called a **derivation**.
	- Derivations can be expressed as a **Parse Tree**.
- Formal Definition:
	- $G=(V,\Sigma, R, S)$
	- $G$ is a 4-tuple:
		- $V$ is a finite set called the variables.
		- $\Sigma$ is a finite set called the terminals disjointed with $V$.
		- $R$ is the finite set of rules.
		- $S\in R$ is the start variable.
  - C.F.G. generate context-free languages.
	  - These are closed under union, concatenation

###### Physics II:
- [[02-20-2023#Physics II:|Previous Lecture]]
- Resistors in Series:
	- $I_T=I_i$
	- $V_T=\sum V_i$
	- $R_T=\sum R_i$
 - Resistors in Parallel:
	 - $I_T=I_i$
	 - $V_T=V_i$
	 - $R_T^{-1}=\sum {R_i}^{-1}$
- In summary, in series resistance increases while parallel decreases resistance due to the increase in the number of paths.
- Junction rule (similar to loop rule): $\sum I_i=0$