## 02-20-2023
---
#### Status: #To-Do
---
### Tasks:
---
- [ ] Solve daily [WORDLE](https://www.nytimes.com/games/wordle/index.html).
- [ ] Practice Japanese on [Duolingo](https://www.duolingo.com/learn).
- [ ] Practice [typing](https://10fastfingers.com/typing-test/english).
- [ ] Mark **02-20-2023 Daily Note** as completed and move note to **0 - Inbox/February**.
### Ideas:
---
- (PLACEHOLDER TEXT).
### Notes:
---
###### Theory:
- [[02-15-2023#Theory:|Previous Lecture]]
- Regular languages are those that are accepted by FAs or generated by a regular expression.
- If a language is defined such that it needs to remember its previous inputs, this results in a State Explosion (machine requiring an infinite number of states.)
- Pumping Lemma:
	- If $A$ is a regular language, $\exists$ a number $p$ (pumping length) where $s\in A$ of at least length $p$ then $s$ may be divided into three pieces $s=xyz$ such that:
		1. $\forall i\geq0,\,xy^iz\in A$,
		2. $|y|>0$
		3. $|xy|\leq p$
	- Not particularity useful for proving that a language is regular, but can be used to find a counterexample proving a language is nonregular. 
###### Physics II:
- [[02-15-2023#Physics Lecture:|Previous Lecture]]
- Current is the charge per unit of time that flows past a certain point and is measured in $\frac{C}{s}$ or amps ($A$).
- Average current is defined as $I_{avg}=\frac{\Delta Q}{\Delta t}$
- Instantaneous current is defined as the limit $\lim_{t\rightarrow0}I_{avg}$
- Though current is a scalar, the sign of the value denotes what direction it is flowing in. That is, the flow of positive charges is positive current.
- At the macroscopic level we are concerned with current density $\vec{J}$ in a **device** (generally a wire) such that $I=\int\vec{J}\cdot d\vec{A}$
	- Generally, $\vec{J}$ is uniform and parallel to $d\vec{A}$.
	- Thus we can usually just refer to the magnitude $J$
- At the microscopic view we see that $I=nqvA$ in a **material** where:
	- $n$ is the free charge density (material dependent) 
	- $q$ is the charge in the charge carrier (for example the electron) 
	- $v$ is the linear velocity of the flow, which to be more accurate is the drift velocity $\vec{v}_d$ (mean speed of the flow since the charges are not really flowing in a straight line)
	- The current density is related to the number of free charges $\vec{J}=nq\vec{v}_d$
- Ohm's law:
	- Amount of current is dependent on strength of the field and the conductivity of the conductor. This is expressed as $\vec{J}=\sigma\vec{E}$
	- In terms of how restive the material is: $\vec{J}=\frac{1}{\rho}\vec{E}$
	- Not all materials follow ohm's law, there are called ohmic materials.
	- Resistivity changes based on temperature.
		- $\rho=\rho_0[1+\alpha(T-T_0)]$
- Resistance over non-cylindrical shapes:
	- Integrate!